---
title: 'Today I Learned ~D[2025-05-14]'
hero: ''
alt: ''
date: '2025-05-15'
tags: ['TIL', 'Programming']
---

I recently switched jobs, which means new BitBucket credentials. However; I remain an occasional consultant with my last agency so I need to keep my public key associated with their BitBucket account... 

### The first thing I learned today
BitBucket won't let you use the same public key for multiple accounts.  I find this a little odd; like how AWS won't let you name a S3 bucket if the name already exists. It feels like a website telling you "hey somebody is using this password lets try something else!" I know RSA key pairs are more secure and unique than passwords but still 🤷

### Making multiple pushes to git easy 
You can adjust your `~/.ssh/config` to easily push to separate git accounts with different keys:
```
# Assume this is your defaut
Host *
    UseKeychain yes 

# Key 2
Host altkey
    HostName bitbucket.org
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/alt-key
    # you likely don't need this but it's nice to specify 
    User git 
```
Then add/update your remote origin:
```
git remote add origin  git@altkey:bitbucket_account/repo.git
```
Instead of `bitbucket.org:account` you're just subbing in the `Host` alias. From there SSH doesn't care because it's been pointed to an `IdentityFile` it may not be the system default but it works.
### The git problems begin
`git push` and:
```
fatal: Could not read from remote repository.

Please make sure you have the correct access rights
```
Ok fairly common lets go through the checklist:
1. The key is in BitBucket
2. BitBucket access is "write"
3. Check origin (see above)
4. Check permissions on the public key
And that's about where my expertise ended. 
### Diving in
It's useful to learn a bit of debugging, you can get pretty verbose with git logging by adding the environment variable`GIT_SSH_COMMAND="ssh -vvv` 
Pretty cool, and I was able to confirm a few differences between pushes to a working repo and the broken one. I was also able to give this log to an LLM and bounce a few ideas off it but ultimtally I don't feel like these logs gave me a lot of valuable info.
`git config --list` likewise is a handy flag to use but it didn't show me any glaring issues.
So I started looking into the SSH config:
`ssh-add -l` which lists the RSA keys you have configured. To be sure I did `ssh-add -D` which removes your keys and then explicitly added both keys back with `ssh-add ~/.ssh/[key name]`
Then I ran `ssh -T git@altkey` this runs a test with the alias configured in the config file.  Infuriatingly, this returned: 
```
authenticated via ssh key.

You can use git to connect to Bitbucket. Shell access is disabled
```
So my config was correct, I had access, but I could not push.
It took me an hour but eventually I set the key for git to use explicitly:
```
GIT_SSH_COMMAND="ssh -i ~/.ssh/alt-key -o IdentitiesOnly=yes" git clone git@altkey:bitbucket_account/repo.git
```
 No further issues (with either repo).  
It's unlikelly I'll remember specifically setting the `GIT_SSH_COMMAND` which is the main reason I'm writing this!